
Psuedo Code For firebase Multi Player Rock Paper Scissors


Setup:

In javascript
Create and Initialize FireBase database

Create persistent storeage (database) references for stored information
    
    Information to keep track of in database -
        players - player1 or player2
            player1
                name, wins, losses
            player2
                name, wins, losses
        player's turn
        chat messages

Global variables - 

    Used to hold data values read from database
        player name
        tabulate wins losses
        player number 1 or 2

Publish player data changes in database

    If player1 data exists in database load global variables
    with the data.  Get player1 data from database on 
    every data change.  Attach event listener for data 
    change.
    If there is no player1 database data and player1 is
    detected as being in the game post disconnect in 
    chat.

    If player2 data exists in database load global variables
    with the data.  Get player2 data from database on
    every data change.  Attach event listener for data
    change.
    If there is no player2 database data and player2 is
    detected as being in the game post disconnect in 
    chat.

On click event listener for player name.

    Read player1/2 data once from database.  If player does not 
    exist set in database.
    Display buttons to make play choice.

If both players leave the game delete all data from database.

Give each player a chance to select choice of rock paper scissor.

If players remain in game check who won the round.

Display results of round and record in the database reset game
for next round.

After both player turns determine winner.


Game Operation:

Whenever someone comes to the page it asks them for their name.

Once a person inputs their name check Firebase to see how many players have already 
joined the game.  If there aren't any or just one player put the person joining the 
game in the database as a player.  If there are already two players in the game notify
the person and not let them join the game.

Once two people have joined the game start the game.  Highlight player one's box and let
player one choose rock, paper, or scissors. There is no display done in player two's box so that 
player one's selection is hidden from player two. 

After player one's choice highlight player two's box and accept their choice of rock paper
or scissors. There is no display done in player one's box.

Once both players make their choice of rock paper or scissors their choices are displayed in their
game box and the winner is announced in the middle box.  

Display the game score in the bottom of each players box.  Reset the game and play a second round.

Added functionality - add a chat box at the bottom of the page.









